exercise-2/README.md, before:

#PRACTICE 2: IMPORT ADDRESS LIST TO DATABASE

Given a csv file which represents a contacts list (name, email and phone), we will create a job _ImportAddressListJob_ 
to import all contacts to a relational database.

To do it, we will go through 11 tasks that are the following:

1. Set up build environment
1. Set up spring batch infrastructure and application
1. Set up database environment
1. Set up import environment
1. Define job
1. Define import step
1. Define the [ItemReader][BATCH-ITEM-READER]
1. Define the [ItemProcessor][BATCH-ITEM-PROCESSOR]
1. Define the [ItemWriter][BATCH-ITEM-WRITER]
1. Define verify step
1. Build, run & enjoy

In spring batch, each job is a sequence of steps (see: [Configuring and Running a Job](https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/reference/html/configureJob.html)); steps come in two flavours: tasklet oriented and chunk oriented (see: [Configuring Step](https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/reference/html/configureStep.html)).

In this practice we will create a job _ImportAddressListJob_ with two steps: _ImportAddressListStep_ that is a chunk-oriented one and _VerifyStep_ which is a tasklet step (it will be used to verify that everything went well). We will create an [ItemReader][BATCH-ITEM-READER], an [ItemProcessor][BATCH-ITEM-PROCESSOR] and an [ItemWriter][BATCH-ITEM-WRITER] to do the job of importing a CSV file to a database.

## TASK 1: SET UP BUILD ENVIRONMENT

Since we already practiced this in [exercise 1][EXERCISE-1], you only need to follow two quick steps:

1. Create the gradle files using the content provided in the links
1. Create the directories used by gradle

Details:

1. Create the gradle files using the content provided in the links (both in the root of exercise-2 project)

    1. [build.gradle][FILE-BUILD-GRADLE]: this is slightly different from the [exercise 1][EXERCISE-1] since we are also importing database dependencies
    1. [gradle.properties][FILE-GRADLE-PROPERTIES]: this is the same as in [exercise 1][EXERCISE-1]
    
1. Create the directories used by gradle

    If you are in a bash terminal, you can create all of them with the following command:

    ```sh
    shell$ mkdir -pv src/{main,test}/{java/resources}
    ```

    The following directories must exist:

    ```
    src/main/java
    src/main/resources
    src/test/java
    src/test/resources
    ```
    
##TASK 2: SET UP SPRING BATCH INFRASTRUCTURE AND APPLICATION

We will quickly create the necessary classes to have both, our application and spring batch infrastructure beans.

So, you need to follow two steps: (see [exercise 1][EXERCISE-1] if you want more context)

1. Create the application main entry point
1. Create spring batch infrastructure

Details:

1. Create the application main entry point

    Just create a class named `Applicatin` in `src/main/java/importaddresslist` with the following contents:
    
    ```java
    package importaddresslist;

    import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
    import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;

    @SpringBootApplication
    public class Application {
        public static void main(String... args) {
            SpringApplication.run(Application.class, args);
        }
    }
    ```

1. Create spring batch infrastructure

    Just create a class named `BatchConfiguration` in `src/main/java/importaddresslist` with the following contents:
        
    ```java
    package importaddresslist;

    import org.springframework.batch.core.configuration.annotation.EnableBatchProcessing;
    import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;

    @Configuration
    @EnableBatchProcessing
    public class BatchConfiguration {
    }
    ```

##TASK 3: SET UP DATABASE ENVIRONMENT
##TASK 4: SET UP IMPORT ENVIRONMENT
##TASK 5: DEFINE JOB
##TASK 6: DEFINE IMPORT STEP
##TASK 7: DEFINE THE [ItemReader][BATCH-ITEM-READER]
##TASK 8: DEFINE THE [ItemProcessor][BATCH-ITEM-PROCESSOR]
##TASK 9: DEFINE THE [ItemWriter][BATCH-ITEM-WRITER]
##TASK 10: DEFINE VERIFY STEP
##TASK 11: BUILD, RUN & ENJOY

<!-- global links -->

[FILE-BUILD-GRADLE]: https://github.com/rvazquezglez/spring-batch-workshop/blob/master/exercise-2/build.gradle
[FILE-GRADLE-PROPERTIES]: https://github.com/rvazquezglez/spring-batch-workshop/blob/master/exercise-2/gradle.properties
<!--[FILE-BATCH-INFRASTRUCTURE]: -->
[BATCH-ITEM-READER]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/apidocs/org/springframework/batch/item/ItemReader.html
[BATCH-ITEM-PROCESSOR]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/apidocs/org/springframework/batch/item/ItemProcessor.html
[BATCH-ITEM-WRITER]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/apidocs/org/springframework/batch/item/ItemWriter.html
[EXERCISE-1]: https://github.com/rvazquezglez/spring-batch-workshop/tree/master/exercise-1/README.md

Commit message:

Added task 3: set up database

exercise-2/README.md, after:

#PRACTICE 2: IMPORT ADDRESS LIST TO DATABASE

Given a csv file which represents a contacts list (name, email and phone), we will create a job _ImportAddressListJob_ 
to import all contacts to a relational database.

To do it, we will go through 11 tasks that are the following:

1. Set up build environment
1. Set up spring batch infrastructure and application
1. Set up database environment
1. Set up import environment
1. Define job
1. Define import step
1. Define the [ItemReader][BATCH-ITEM-READER]
1. Define the [ItemProcessor][BATCH-ITEM-PROCESSOR]
1. Define the [ItemWriter][BATCH-ITEM-WRITER]
1. Define verify step
1. Build, run & enjoy

In spring batch, each job is a sequence of steps (see: [Configuring and Running a Job](https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/reference/html/configureJob.html)); steps come in two flavours: tasklet oriented and chunk oriented (see: [Configuring Step](https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/reference/html/configureStep.html)).

In this practice we will create a job _ImportAddressListJob_ with two steps: _ImportAddressListStep_ that is a chunk-oriented one and _VerifyStep_ which is a tasklet step (it will be used to verify that everything went well). We will create an [ItemReader][BATCH-ITEM-READER], an [ItemProcessor][BATCH-ITEM-PROCESSOR] and an [ItemWriter][BATCH-ITEM-WRITER] to do the job of importing a CSV file to a database.

## TASK 1: SET UP BUILD ENVIRONMENT

Since we already practiced this in [exercise 1][EXERCISE-1], you only need to follow two quick steps:

1. Create the gradle files using the content provided in the links
1. Create the directories used by gradle

Details:

1. Create the gradle files using the content provided in the links (both in the root of exercise-2 project)

    1. [build.gradle][FILE-BUILD-GRADLE]: this is slightly different from the [exercise 1][EXERCISE-1] since we are also importing database dependencies
    1. [gradle.properties][FILE-GRADLE-PROPERTIES]: this is the same as in [exercise 1][EXERCISE-1]
    
1. Create the directories used by gradle

    If you are in a bash terminal, you can create all of them with the following command:

    ```sh
    shell$ mkdir -pv src/{main,test}/{java/resources}
    ```

    The following directories must exist:

    ```
    src/main/java
    src/main/resources
    src/test/java
    src/test/resources
    ```
    
##TASK 2: SET UP SPRING BATCH INFRASTRUCTURE AND APPLICATION

We will quickly create the necessary classes to have both, our application and spring batch infrastructure beans.

So, you need to follow two steps: (see [exercise 1][EXERCISE-1] if you want more context)

1. Create the application main entry point
1. Create spring batch infrastructure

Details:

1. Create the application main entry point

    Just create a class named `Application` in `src/main/java/importaddresslist` with the following contents:
    
    ```java
    package importaddresslist;

    import org.springframework.boot.SpringApplication;
    import org.springframework.boot.autoconfigure.SpringBootApplication;

    @SpringBootApplication
    public class Application {
        public static void main(String... args) {
            SpringApplication.run(Application.class, args);
        }
    }
    ```

1. Create spring batch infrastructure

    Just create a class named `BatchConfiguration` in `src/main/java/importaddresslist` with the following contents:
        
    ```java
    package importaddresslist;

    import org.springframework.batch.core.configuration.annotation.EnableBatchProcessing;
    import org.springframework.context.annotation.Configuration;

    @Configuration
    @EnableBatchProcessing
    public class BatchConfiguration {
    }
    ```

##TASK 3: SET UP DATABASE ENVIRONMENT

You only need to create the following script in `src/main/resources/schema.sql`:

```sql
CREATE TABLE contacts (
    id INTEGER GENERATED BY DEFAULT AS IDENTITY (START WITH 1) PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(50) NOT NULL,
    email VARCHAR(75),
    phone VARCHAR(20)
);
```

<strong>Rationale: </strong> Spring boot will do the following two tasks for you: a) It will create a DataSource bean in spring, b) It will execute your script in your configured database. See more: [Spring Boot Database Initialization][SPRING-BOOT-DATABASE-INITIALIZATION]

##TASK 4: SET UP IMPORT ENVIRONMENT
##TASK 5: DEFINE JOB
##TASK 6: DEFINE IMPORT STEP
##TASK 7: DEFINE THE [ItemReader][BATCH-ITEM-READER]
##TASK 8: DEFINE THE [ItemProcessor][BATCH-ITEM-PROCESSOR]
##TASK 9: DEFINE THE [ItemWriter][BATCH-ITEM-WRITER]
##TASK 10: DEFINE VERIFY STEP
##TASK 11: BUILD, RUN & ENJOY

<!-- global links -->

[FILE-BUILD-GRADLE]: https://github.com/rvazquezglez/spring-batch-workshop/blob/master/exercise-2/build.gradle
[FILE-GRADLE-PROPERTIES]: https://github.com/rvazquezglez/spring-batch-workshop/blob/master/exercise-2/gradle.properties
<!--[FILE-BATCH-INFRASTRUCTURE]: -->
[BATCH-ITEM-READER]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/apidocs/org/springframework/batch/item/ItemReader.html
[BATCH-ITEM-PROCESSOR]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/apidocs/org/springframework/batch/item/ItemProcessor.html
[BATCH-ITEM-WRITER]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-batch/apidocs/org/springframework/batch/item/ItemWriter.html
[EXERCISE-1]: https://github.com/rvazquezglez/spring-batch-workshop/tree/master/exercise-1/README.md
[SPRING-BOOT-DATABASE-INITIALIZATION]: https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/howto-database-initialization.html
